in this video we are going to learn how to
insert a node at the beginning of a linked list
So this is the code to implement this programme here
The function add First will insert a new node at
the beginning of a linked list and we are passing
the value of the new node to the function which
will be stored in Val
Now we are going to insert the element 10 so
Val equal to 10 here
Now suppose are linked
List is empty so head will be equal to null
First we need to create the new node
So write node new node equal to new node
So new node will be created at address 1024
And as we know we have two parts for a
node in a linked list the data part to store
the value and the next part as a reference to
the next node
So first we need to add the data part so
write new node dot data equal to val so the
value 10 will be stored in the data part
And since we want to insert our new node at
the beginning the new node must be inserted immediately before
the head
write
So the next part of this new node should point
to head write New node dot Next equal to head
So after executing this part of the code we have
created a new node
We have filled the data part and we have pointed
it to the head of the linked list
So the next step the final step is to make
this new node the head of the linked list
So write head equal to new node
Now the new node has become the head of the
linked list
Now let us insert another element 20 to this linked
list at the beginning
So now the value pass the Val will be equal to
20 and this new will be creating the new node
and let us add our value 20 at the data
part
So we have new node dot data equal to Val
and next should point to the head
So we have new nodes dot next equal to head
Now made 20 the head of the linked list
So we have head equal to new node
So we have inserted 20 at the beginning of the
linked list
So the new Head is the
The node
With Value 20
Now let us insert another element
So Val equal to 30 and new will create a
new node and add Val which is 30 at the
data part and make its next point to the head
Now made the node 30 The head of the linked
list
So thats all And this is how we can insert
a node at the beginning of a linked list
So create the new node at the value at the
data part
Make its next point to the head and at last
make the new node the head
Now let us relate this with a train so we
know we have an engine followed by a number of
coaches in a train right
so let the engine be our head of the linked list and
the coaches be the nodes after the head
So let this be a node with data and next
are the link part
So suppose we have the train empty so a new
block A is added so make it the
Engine which is equivalent to the head in our linked
list
Now let us
Insert another block B and that will become the engine
Now let's insert another block C And that will become
the engine
Oh now when inserting another block D it will become
Same happens with the linked list in this case So
whenever you add a new node it becomes the head
Now let us talk about the time complexity
Since we don't need any Traversal we only need to
create and make the new node the head the time
complexity is order of one.